Team name: **ECAN PROJECT**

Team members: Alex Hobbs, Evan Yu, Cameron Schneider, Nathaniel Tabacchi

# Introduction

For our semester project, we are planning on making a video game. All
four of us avidly enjoy video games, and we want to make a game
that both can hit a general audience and satisfy the desires of the
smaller, more intense subsection of gamers. This is why we decided to
work on a puzzle-combat game.

The game will be played on a 2D grid, in a top-down approach. There
will be a playable character who has to go from level to level,
solving various puzzle rooms. The main focus of this project is going
to be the puzzle design, as that should be the most exciting part of
the game to a majority of people. We do not yet have a definitive
list of puzzle types yet, but we do have some ideas, such as a
push-block puzzle, an ice-sliding puzzle, along with other common
puzzle tropes, such as switches, pressure plates, keys, doors,
changing walls, and more.

Combat will be reserved to the final part of puzzle-centric levels,
in the form of a level boss or set of particularly difficult enemies,
and some levels will be combat-only. Such combat-only levels may be
a single room, multiple rooms, or a maze. Players may choose to
escape dire situations, but hav eto replay the level, and the
player's demise will bring about a similar effect.

The idea is that there will be enemies on the puzzle maps which the
player can avoid, but some must be fought to complete a puzzle. When
the player steps on a tile adjacent to the enemy, a turn-based battle
will occur. There will be an assortment of enemy types with different
weapons, abilities, and stats. The player can use items that they
have gathered throughout the puzzles, found from exploration and 
slain foes, to fight with.

There will be a focus on replayability, where the player can acquire
different loot from the same enemy, depending on what is randomly
rolled from a loot pool. The player can replay a level until they
gather a piece of loot that they desire, either being stronger or
more interesting than the loot they had before. The player will quest
through the main story, getting better gear and ascending through the
levels. The player can opt into taking on harder challenges, such as
smaller dungeons with much larger puzzles and much stronger enemies.

The game may not be completed by the end of the semester, however we
would like to have a working, playable demo by the end of it. This
demo will include around 10-20 levels, to show the capabilities of
the game.

# Anticipated Technologies

We will be using C/C++ to build the game, and using the Make program
for ease of compiling. For the graphical aspect, we will use the
ncurses library, allowing the game to be played within a terminal-like
environment. For version control, we are using Git, in conjunction
with GitHub.

# Method/Approach

We will use an AGILE method, currently looking at SCRUM, to develop
this game. This will allow us to create a MVP as soon as we can.

# Estimated Timeline

Our first milestone is to get the basic mechanics in place, such as
player movement and some puzzles, incorporated into a dev-room style
level. Once core mechanics are in place, milestones will come in the
form of new levels. Future features that are currently deemed to be
out of scope for this semester may come as milestones if they are
deemed viable.

# Anticipated Problems

As this is mostly our first time working on a team as software
engineers, our first anticipated problem will be incorporating and
using a new process for developing software.

Another problem is the familiarity with Make and ncurses, as this is
new technology to us that we will have to learn to use. Another thing
we will have to learn to use is Git, as we have not used it with a
large project worked on by multiple people before.
